
## About

Over a period of 5 days, only two hours a day, the learner learned elements of style in the construction and containerization of small single-function processes that facilitate repurposable workflow creation and execution.  This hands-on-tutorial was given through a webinar using the [Kids First Data Resource Center](https://github.com/kids-first/kf-cloud-credits/blob/main/assets/kfdrc-logo-sm.png).  This repository was used in the course and contains self-learnings to facilitate work.  In this repository, contains how these processes may be kept up-to-date and alert the creator to the functional state of these processes (working or failing) by using a feature found within GitHub called GitHub Actions.  This hands-on-course will use a small example to provide the structure, philosophy and approach to achieving this desirable outcome.  This course seeks to help to demystify and make accessible powerful methods one can use to achieve platform independence and platform interoperability.  Using a simple example to demonstrate these techniques, we will break down and walk the learner through each of the construction steps.  The learners will be introduced to Conda, Docker, GitHub and the standard workflow language, Nextflow.  If time permits, we will also show how these containerized processes can also be represented in a second standard workflow language implementation (e.g. Common Workflow Language or WDL). By the end of the course, the learner will understand these Elements of Style and will know how Conda, Docker, GitHub, Zenodo, and Nextflow enable repurposable research.  Moreover, these steps will be on GitHub for the Learner to return to and reproduce themselves after the end of the course.  In taking this course, the Learner will also be shown the power of JupyterLab notebooks to facilitate literate programming.  Through their participation in the class, learners will learn and understand FAIR (findability, accessibility, interoperability and reusability) best practices. We ask all participants to get a GitHub, Zenodo and ORCID accounts prior to the course.  We ask for minimal background knowledge of the command line, simple commands in the shell environment, we enable a bit of self-learning from the repository to facilitate the acquisition of this knowledge.   This work was powered on CAVATICA and [Kids First Data Resource Center](https://github.com/NIH-NICHD/Kids-First-Elements-of-Style-Workflow-Creation-Maintenance/edit/main/README.md)

